== Readme

== Readme

BookHub: The right book will always keep you company
GITHUB Link: https://github.com/njindal239/rails
Heroku Link: https://bookhubapp276.herokuapp.com/
Repository User Mapping: 
"	Nipun Jindal: njindal239
"	Rajat Mangal: rajatmangal
"	Agamdeep Singh: agam2091995
"	Eric Zhuang: xfijk

Please use the following credentials for signing in to the account:

-     Admin Login: email: cmpt276@sfu.ca, password: "password".
-     Common User Login: njindal@sfu.ca, password: "password".
-     Make your own user account.

Project Abstract:
BookHub is a student portal for selling and buying old academic books pertaining to SFU courses. Users can sign up only if users have a valid account linked to SFU student portal.The portal will keep the track of all the books purchased and sold by the student. The student is able to view the status of all the books he/she has posted for selling.BookHub maintains a database for all users, available books, Wish Listed books, purchases and users associated with each sale and purchase. The database of BookHub is important reagards to security purposes. BookHub is intended to lessen the burden of keeping track of a wide variety of books.

Current Approach to the Problem:
Students at SFU do not have an exclusive access to the academic books that students want to trade. SFU students are difficult to keep track of the books which are posted for selling. The posts of books are unconspicuous in the Facebook pages with other social comments. Students need to contact the seller to know the book is available or not. There is no provision for a student to keep a track of all the books he/she has posted for selling. Locating a certain book requires scrolling through books that are not related to the student interest.

BookHub makes it easier: 
BookHub provides SFU students with an exclusive platform for trading used SFU books. Each student has a database to keep track of all the books that he/she posted for selling and/or has added to the Wishlist. Students will be notified when the sought books become available. BookHub would reduce the time to find books by the exclusive services for SFU old books. Students are able to search for the books based on the name of the book as well as the course name.

Target Audience / Customers: 
BookHub is a web application which is restricted for serving the purpose of SFU students. Only students who have a student account are  eligible to create an account with BookHub. Based on the initial response to the web application and student demands, BookHub can be expanded to include students from other universities. BookHub is not for non-student accesses because non-student customers could pollute the otherwise academic student portal. BookHub is limited only to academic books. There is a consideration to provide remote access to verified old book sellers so that the sellers can post SFU course books that is needed for several students.

Scope of the Project:
BookHub is incorporate features to serve the needs of SFU students. The sign up is for unverified users to verify users' account. Once verified each user is able to manage his/her profile through the sign in. BookHub has a search column used by users to search for the required books. The user is able to search a book by specifying various details such as the name of the book, ISBN of the book or the name of the course that requires that particular book. BookHub has a column where a user is able to post a book for sale along with all the relevant details such as pictures, the condition of the book, price etc. In case a book is not available in the BookHub, the student could add the book in the Wish List. If the book becomes available in future, all the students who have added that particular book in the Wish List are notified with an email. There is a consideration to allow remote access to verified old booksellers (only for SFU course books). The sellers can post books on the portal which serve the requirements of SFU students.

Modified For Iteration 2:
Competitive Analysis:
This website is basically a competition to all the websites those who sell used books online. For instance - amazon, sfu used books (Facebook Page). It will be a firm competition to these sites as it will be exclusive to sfu students only, so they will have a cluster of books to buy from and it will have a functionality that will allow them to set the time by which their book will be out to sell. This will increase the availability scope as books will be readily be available as soon as possible. This website will be a zero-profit organization so this will benefit students and it will have a donation column which will allow people to donate books and those books will be available to students who have them in their wish list. As this site is exclusive to sfu, we will try to connect it to sfu administration so that no one has to wait and set up a meeting point. They can just give the book to sfu administration and will have to show their id and the sold-out number that will be provided by the website once the person pays for the book. If we can get permission from SFU, we will try to connect this to the sfu account so that the money can be sent directly deposited to the account. These functionalities will give us a competitive edge on the other sites.

Modified For Iteration 2:
User Stories:
There are two types of users in the website right now: admin and normal user
1.   Admin: Admin has a specific email and password and as an admin, I will use it, to log in to the website. Admin will have some special rights which can help to maintain the website and can will also help to keep track of all the books that are posted and the users. If you will log in with admin details then you can check the whole database. You also have the ability to delete the users. Also, admin can also edit and delete the books that are posted on the website. In Future, admin will also have rights to watch the transactions performed and can also get the feedback directly from the users.
2.   Normal user: As a normal user, I will, first, sign up to make an account on the website and then will use that username and password to log in to the website. User has option to manage their profile. They can modify the details provided. Also, a user can add books and can also check books that are posted by other users. Users can modify and change the details of the books that is posted by him. But he/she can't modify or delete the books posted by other users. Only the admin has the right to modify details for every book. In future, user will be able to add his/her profile picture and can also provide the availability if the book he wants to sell.

Workflow Steps:

In this Iteration, we have added a new feature that a user can add the books to the book list. After logging in, user will see a dropdown menu on the top right of the screen. User can click on that and there will be option "Add a new book". User can just click on the option and can add a new book. Also, he can see all the books that are available using the "List Books" option. User will have full access to modify the details of the books that he/she has added. But he/she can only modify or delete the books that he/she has added. This can be achieved through listing all the books and then clicking on the "edit book" or "delete book" buttons corresponding to the books that have been added by that specific user. Also, user can make changes is his/her profile by clicking on the "Profile" option in the menu. 

Modified for Iteration 3:
Retrospective:
Our team has four members and we tried to use the agile process for our second iteration. We broke up our work into small parts and different roles were given to team members. This time we divided the work into 10 tasks: -
"	HTML Pages and Styling
"	Bcrypt Encryption
"	Create database and link it to users
"	Authentication
"	Visibility from UI
"	Search Bar
"	Profile Picture
"	Wishlist
"	Book's Image
"	Stripe API
Some of these tasks were big. So, 2 members collaborated to complete the task but the smaller tasks were completed individually. Nipun Jindal handled the Books Database and also linked it with the Users. He implemented the search bar for iteration 3. Also, he helped a lot in the Authentication. Agamdeep Singh did the whole Bcrypt Encryption and he also helped with the UI Authentication. Eric Zhuang helped a lot with the Authentication and Styling. For iteration 3, Eric Zhaung and Agamdeep implemented the wishlist. Rajat Mangal managed the HTML pages and styling part. Also, he helped with the UI visibility part.for iteration 3, Rajat Mangal added Profile picture and Book's image. He basically made a display for books with all details and its image .
For Iteration 3 , we wanted to implement a payment API, and we choose Stripe API to do so .All the team members put in there efforts for this. 

"	For iteration 2, there was a lot of stuff to do. The planning for iteration 2 was done well in time and as a result, the whole work was completed before the expected time. It took us almost 5 days to complete the whole thing. But the constant support of all the team members helped a lot to complete the stuff planned for Iteration 2. This time the collaboration was really good as we learned a lot form our mistakes from iteration 1. There were a bunch of technical errors this time but we were able to figure out most of them and we learned a lot from that too. This time we tried to use GitHub more but we are still learning. We divided the tasks on GitHub but most of the commits were made from the group leader account. But each and every group member did a good job in this Iteration. There is still space for lots of improvements in utilizing the actual benefits of GitHub. Though we were able to assign issues to GitHub, since we were working together most of the time, we still committed only from one account. This is the major thing that we would like to improve from the next iteration onwards. Hence, we will start doing commits from all the accounts from the next iteration. Overall, although the work was split up between team members, every person was involved in almost all phases of design and implementation. It was a complete team effort and the team jelled up well.
"	For iteration 3, 
-	Things that went well: All the issues assigned to Team members were successfully completed and this time, Github was used to distribute work and everyone made full use of github's functionality. 
-	Things that didn't went well: Although we implemented Stripe API but we were not able to make complete use of its functionality and that we will try to improve.
-	For future: In future, we are planning to add more security to the site and we are also thinking to use more APIs. For instance, Facebook API. 


